{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2578
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
ETL Project Final Technical Report\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 Ryan, Jorge, Gowtham \
For our ETL project, we decided to use data from the Nasdaq Composite Index and Dow Jones Index.  The Nasdaq is a well known global electronic marketplace for buying and selling securities.  It features mostly tech oriented companies and has 3,300 different companies within its index.  The Dow Jones Index is comprised of the top 30 companies traded in the NYSE.  \
We chose this data based on a communal interest in the subject area and a desire to extract data that could be transformed by date and type.  We initially used Kaggle to find our data but we found that the site www.stooq.com had the type of data we were looking for which was a record of the trading data for the two indexes over the last 5 years.  Thus, we extracted the data from this site in CSV format.  \
Although both the Nasdaq and the Dow Jones are indexes representing companies whose stocks can be bought and sold or \'93traded\'94, two major differences are the aforementioned total of companies in each index as well as their weighting type.  The Nasdaq is a cap-weighted index which means it derives its performance from the movement of the underlying holdings multiplied by their respective allocations as determined by market cap whereas the Dow (aka the Dow Jones Industrial Average or DJIA) is a price-weighted index.  In a price weighted index the stocks with the highest share price received the greatest weighting which essentially means they move upward or towards the top of the index as their share price weighting increases.  \
This information is relevant as it guided our decision making in terms of why and how we should transform our data.  We decided to drop the volume column based on the price-weighted v cap-weighted variation as the two indexes are weighted differently here and therefor do not share a 1 to 1 commonality.  We decided to keep, transform, and ultimately join the two tables on the date column as this was an area where the data did have a 1 to 1 commonality.  In order to do this, we had to take the date type that the data was initially presented in, (month/day/year) and turn it into the more universally accepted format of (year/month/day).  \
This was not a very straightforward transform and we were guided by one of our TAs who was very helpful in this rather tricky transformation.  We worked with Excel, Jupyter Notebook, and SQL through pgAdmin during this stage of the process.  Ultimately, the transformation was successful and we were able to have have two clean tables with a universally accepted datetime format with which to execute our join.  \
(Other team members can take it from here or maybe from earlier\'85)}